---
title: "Pidapipo CBD - Fior di Latte Gelato"
date: 2023-06-26
category: Ice-Cream
---
I was recommended this store by a fellow ice cream enthusiast, but I was disappointed to find that there was no pure vanilla flavour - only vanilla & honeycomb was offered. I suppose that's fair enough - I welcome the innovation and will certainly try it one day! But on this day, I asked the shopkeeper if there was a more vanilla flavour than vanilla & honeycomb, and he recommended I try Fior di Latte.

Now, I must state that Fior di Latte is *not* vanilla. I repeat; it is not vanilla. However, it embodies the same values of vanilla as a masterpiece of simplicity. Fior di Latte translates to "flower of milk", and it is a clean, single-minded flavour that aims to bring the fresh taste of milk to your tastebuds. Fior di Latte and vanilla are similar to haiku in that way - less is more. I was extremely satisfied with the recommendation from the shopkeeper!

The flavour was crisp and clear, with the milk taste being extremely apparent. I wouldn't say it is too sweet, but I also do not have other Fior di Latte comparisons. For my first try of this flavour, however, the sweetness level seemed near perfect which I could definitely apprciate! The creaminess though, was incredible. I believe that it was one of, if not the creamiest texture I have ever felt!

Pidapipo Fior di Latte, in my opinion, has stats as follows:
Creaminess: 10
Sweetness: 8.5
Intensity of Milk: 9

On the Bulla scale, this makes it a 9/10 which is incredibly good, definitely recommend!