---
title: "Rating Scale and Method"
date: 2023-06-18
---
The rating scale for vanilla ice cream tasting is almost completely subjective in nature; nevertheless, a standardised tasting method and scale will be used to attempt to rank and quantify the ice creams tried.

To me, the most important aspects of an amazing vanilla ice cream would include 3 factors. Creaminess, Sweetness and Intensity of Vanilla flavour.
Creaminess is a measure of the texture and consumption experience of the ice cream as it is eaten. High milk solid content usually makes the ice cream creamier.
Personal Preference to Sweetness level is a measure of how much, I personally, enjoy the sweetness level of the ice cream. Notably, this is not very sweet. I personally prefer less sweet vanilla, as sweetness would overpower the actual vanilla and milk flavour. I will include details in each review for others, as I understand this is very subjective.
Intensity of Vanilla is a measure of how much vanilla flavour comes through in the final product. For example, seeing vanilla pods in your ice cream (they look like black bits) is usually a higher quality vanilla flavour when compared to artificial vanilla flavour.

The measuring benchmark will be Bulla Vanilla. It is extreme value-for-money, creamy and has adequate vanilla taste. That will be a 5 on the "Bulla scale". Each ice cream will be compared to this to increase the fidelity of the rating system - I would ordinarily give Bulla a 8/10, but on the Bulla scale its a 5/10. Highly recommend.

Bulla Vanilla, in my opinion, has stats as follows:
Creaminess: 8
Sweetness: 3
Intensity of Vanilla: 5

Keep in mind, this is something that I would give a 8/10 ordinarily. Creaminess is probably my most important factor, followed by Vanilla Intensity, then finally Sweetness. There is no mathematical formulae that can get the 8 or 5 out of 10 from the numbers I have given to each factor - it is purely subjective.